README.md, before:


![](docs/robot.jpg)

# Hunt: Showdown Outfitter

A tool to manage item presets for **Hunt: Showdown** and semi-automatically
equip them in the game by automating mouse/keyboard input against
preconfigured UI coordinates.

## Use at your own Risk

- This software is a personal project and in no way affiliated with Crytek or the game itself.
- I am just so annoyed by equipping my hunters with the same loadouts all over again that I created this.
- **Attention**: The automation of mouse/keyboard input when using this tool **may get you banned** by the anti-cheat system. You have been warned.

## How to use

Read the disclaimer above!

### Installation
- Download the latest `hunt_showdown_outfitter.exe` [from this page](https://github.com/cb109/hunt_showdown_outfitter/releases) (you can find the files under the release **Assets**)

### Initial Setup
- Launch `Hunt: Showdown` and set it to use `Window Mode: Borderless` temporarily (otherwise the screenshot debugging below won't work).
- Start the tool: It should show the settings screen with your UI coordinates estimated automatically.
  - In `Hunt: Showdown`, go to the `Roster > Equipment` screen.
  - In the tool, press the `Debug with a Screenshot` button and see if the result looks good.
  - Tweak UI the coordinates manually (overall via `Estimate Coordinates` or individually via the input fields) as needed and don't forget to press `Save Settings` when done.
- Once happy with the UI coordinates, please save your file using the `Save As` button in the upper right corner of the screen.
- Now you can start creating/editing loadouts.
  - Don't forget to save each loadout.
  - Don't forget to use the `Save`/`Save As` buttons to save the file overall once you are done editing.

### Equipping a Loadout

- Make sure `Hunt: Showdown` is running and is set to use `Window Mode: Fullscreen` (otherwise automation may fail). You mave have to restart the game if you had used a different Window Mode before.
- Make sure that within `Hunt: Showdown` you are on the `Roster > Equipment` screen.
- In the tool, equip a loadout via one of the buttons or by doubleclicking it in the list.
  - You can also equip single items of a loadout py shift-leftclicking its checkbox. This is mainly useful to debug the text you've written in the item field.
  - If you want to stop the equipment procedure (or started it while on the wrong screen in game) simply hold the `Esc` key.
  - An empty slot in the tool means the slot will be emptied in the game.
    - If the item checkbox is disabled the slot will be skipped (e.g. for loadouts that only define tools and consumables).

## Screenshots of the Interface

![](docs/ui_settings.png)

---

![](docs/ui_loadouts.png)

## Helpful Things to know

- A great tool to figure out coordinates visually is using [Greenshot](https://getgreenshot.org/) and its "Capture region" function which will display x/y pixel coordinates as you go.
- The `Debug with a Screenshot` button seems to give best result using the `Window Mode: Borderless`.
- Each x/y coordinates should point roughly somewhere inside each UI element. Some randomness is applied later, so leave some pixels as wiggle room please. Ideally in a way that it doesn't matter if a weapon slot is e.g. large/medium/small (just target the left side). The debug-screenshot results should look something like this:
  ![](docs/debug_screenshot.png)
- Items are equipped using doubleclick, which just assigns them from the inventory if available or buys them if needed. Unfortunately there is no way to prefer/select contraband items right now.
- It doesn't matter if your current Hunter already has items equipped, those will be unequipped if possible, but discarded if needed. So maybe unequip your extra Nitro manually if you don't want to lose it.
- The last imported/exported file that is opened on launch is remembered in this file: `C:\Users\your-username\hunt_showdown_outfitter.json`. Clicking the `Reset current filepath` marker will delete this file, so you can start fresh if needed.
- You need to have Chrome or Edge installed on your Windows machine for the frontend to work.

## Known Issues

- When the tool is opened it will auto-load the latest saved/opened file.  File handling is still pretty clunky: Settings and loadouts must each be saved individually, but the changes are only written to disk when you press the Save button in the top toolbar.
- The tool has absolutely no idea about Hunt's item system or current game state, it just moves the mouse and clicks and types the text you specified. As a result, some situations can not be easily handled, e.g. trying to select the "Knife" will equip the Heavy Knife, as it always matches as first in  the list. Use a legendary skin with a more unique name instead.
- Special ammo is not yet supported.

## Development

### Prerequisites

Download and install Python 3.7+

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Run local instance
```bash
python main.py
```

### Compile list of high level dependencies
```bash
pip install pip-tools
pip-compile
```

### Build single file .exe

```bash
python -m eel --onefile --noconsole main.py frontend --icon build.ico
```

Commit message:

Add a super basic CLI so we can experiment with OS hotkeys

README.md, after:


![](docs/robot.jpg)

# Hunt: Showdown Outfitter

A tool to manage item presets for **Hunt: Showdown** and semi-automatically
equip them in the game by automating mouse/keyboard input against
preconfigured UI coordinates.

## Use at your own Risk

- This software is a personal project and in no way affiliated with Crytek or the game itself.
- I am just so annoyed by equipping my hunters with the same loadouts all over again that I created this.
- **Attention**: The automation of mouse/keyboard input when using this tool **may get you banned** by the anti-cheat system. You have been warned.

## How to use

Read the disclaimer above!

### Installation
- Download the latest `hunt_showdown_outfitter.exe` [from this page](https://github.com/cb109/hunt_showdown_outfitter/releases) (you can find the files under the release **Assets**)

### Initial Setup
- Launch `Hunt: Showdown` and set it to use `Window Mode: Borderless` temporarily (otherwise the screenshot debugging below won't work).
- Start the tool: It should show the settings screen with your UI coordinates estimated automatically.
  - In `Hunt: Showdown`, go to the `Roster > Equipment` screen.
  - In the tool, press the `Debug with a Screenshot` button and see if the result looks good.
  - Tweak UI the coordinates manually (overall via `Estimate Coordinates` or individually via the input fields) as needed and don't forget to press `Save Settings` when done.
- Once happy with the UI coordinates, please save your file using the `Save As` button in the upper right corner of the screen.
- Now you can start creating/editing loadouts.
  - Don't forget to save each loadout.
  - Don't forget to use the `Save`/`Save As` buttons to save the file overall once you are done editing.

### Equipping a Loadout

- Make sure `Hunt: Showdown` is running and is set to use `Window Mode: Fullscreen` (otherwise automation may fail). You mave have to restart the game if you had used a different Window Mode before.
- Make sure that within `Hunt: Showdown` you are on the `Roster > Equipment` screen.
- In the tool, equip a loadout via one of the buttons or by doubleclicking it in the list.
  - You can also equip single items of a loadout py shift-leftclicking its checkbox. This is mainly useful to debug the text you've written in the item field.
  - If you want to stop the equipment procedure (or started it while on the wrong screen in game) simply hold the `Esc` key.
  - An empty slot in the tool means the slot will be emptied in the game.
    - If the item checkbox is disabled the slot will be skipped (e.g. for loadouts that only define tools and consumables).

## Screenshots of the Interface

![](docs/ui_settings.png)

---

![](docs/ui_loadouts.png)

## Commandline Interface

You can run the tool in a shell (e.g. cmd.exe) with the `--no-gui` flag and pass a file and loadout to equip. Helps to bind certain loadouts to a hotkey for example.

```
Usage: hunt_showdown_outfitter.exe [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --no-gui               Enables the commandline interface instead of opening
                         the GUI
  -f, --input-file TEXT  File containing loadouts and settings (.json)
  -l, --loadout TEXT     Loadout to equip (matched by ID or name)
  --help                 Show this message and exit.
```

Example:

```
> hunt_showdown_outfitter.exe --no-gui -f my_loadouts.json -l "Vetterli + Hand Crossbow"
```

## Helpful Things to know

- A great tool to figure out coordinates visually is using [Greenshot](https://getgreenshot.org/) and its "Capture region" function which will display x/y pixel coordinates as you go.
- The `Debug with a Screenshot` button seems to give best result using the `Window Mode: Borderless`.
- Each x/y coordinates should point roughly somewhere inside each UI element. Some randomness is applied later, so leave some pixels as wiggle room please. Ideally in a way that it doesn't matter if a weapon slot is e.g. large/medium/small (just target the left side). The debug-screenshot results should look something like this:
  ![](docs/debug_screenshot.png)
- Items are equipped using doubleclick, which just assigns them from the inventory if available or buys them if needed. Unfortunately there is no way to prefer/select contraband items right now.
- It doesn't matter if your current Hunter already has items equipped, those will be unequipped if possible, but discarded if needed. So maybe unequip your extra Nitro manually if you don't want to lose it.
- The last imported/exported file that is opened on launch is remembered in this file: `C:\Users\your-username\hunt_showdown_outfitter.json`. Clicking the `Reset current filepath` marker will delete this file, so you can start fresh if needed.
- You need to have Chrome or Edge installed on your Windows machine for the frontend to work.

## Known Issues

- When the tool is opened it will auto-load the latest saved/opened file.  File handling is still pretty clunky: Settings and loadouts must each be saved individually, but the changes are only written to disk when you press the Save button in the top toolbar.
- The tool has absolutely no idea about Hunt's item system or current game state, it just moves the mouse and clicks and types the text you specified. As a result, some situations can not be easily handled, e.g. trying to select the "Knife" will equip the Heavy Knife, as it always matches as first in  the list. Use a legendary skin with a more unique name instead.
- Special ammo is not yet supported.

## Development

### Prerequisites

Download and install Python 3.7+

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Run local instance
```bash
python main.py
```

### Compile list of high level dependencies
```bash
pip install pip-tools
pip-compile
```

### Build single file .exe

```bash
python -m eel --onefile --noconsole main.py frontend --icon build.ico
```
